Add the-block-1-983-702-problem review to bitcoin-explained (#417)
bitcointranscripts/bitcointranscripts: bitcoin-explained/the-block-1-983-702-problem.md

> You'd have to do an extra check for every transaction.

Reviewer: The above line has an AI transcription mistake

Like, hey, now that I've checked that all the inputs are valid, or whichever sequence we're going to do, does this transaction exist?

**Aaron van Wirdum**: 00:16:25

Right.
So that was the case in 2012, for a brief while, at least, after BIP30 was deployed.
And this sounds like it's an especially annoying or burdensome check because it's so unlikely that it's necessary, especially for all non-coinbase transactions.
But just technically...

**Sjors Provoost**: 00:16:44

It's completely unnecessary in the sense that no miner would be this stupid, but of course if you don't check then they would be.

**Aaron van Wirdum**: 00:16:50

You have to check, but it's burdensome.

**Sjors Provoost**: 00:16:52

But it wastes some resources.
I don't know how much, if it's like 1% or 10%, but it's annoying.

**Aaron van Wirdum**: 00:17:00

And also just in general, you want miners to be able to check the validity of new blocks or all nodes.
You want them to be able to check for the as soon as possible.

**Sjors Provoost**: 00:17:10

Yeah, so every second you can shave off the checking time is better.

> So, bit 34 was introduced, which made this process more efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, BIP34 was introduced, which made this process more efficient.
```

And if you can show that for every transaction descending from it, it was also using a Coinbase transaction that cannot be duplicated, maybe you can prove that it, you know, you could write a proof that it can never happen, gives you another 20 years.
I think that's a stupid exercise compared to the simple software.

**Aaron van Wirdum**: 00:37:04

Well, you didn't figure it out for this podcast, if that's the case or not?

**Sjors Provoost**: 00:37:07

I did ask it on Stack Overflow in a comment somewhere, but no, I did not.

**Aaron van Wirdum**: 00:37:11

Sure, do you even do?
What do you do for this podcast?
Nothing.

**Sjors Provoost**: 00:37:16

Moving on.

> I did actually run a script to check that there are no upreturn transactions before BIP324 activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I did actually run a script to check that there are no `OP_RETURN` transactions before BIP324 activated.
```
